// Chris Blake
Hi Mike,

Thanks for your message, I definitely remember our chat last year!  You have clearly done some very nice work in your PhD.  I will be visiting Edinburgh in the last week of January, so I look forward to talking with you some more.

Your letter is definitely publishable in my opinion.  My main comment is you should compare with the work of Florian Beutler and Shun Saito ( http://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.4611.pdf ) who have done a lot of theoretical development along similar lines to you, although not exactly the same I believe.

My current approach to the problem is to use the "Yamamoto et al." estimator that Florian and I have worked on to estimate the multipoles, and FFT approaches for convolution.  My method has been fine for my investigations, but is not as efficient as yours.  For some reason I have never got around to implementing the FFTlog approach for the Hankel transforms.

Some other minor comments:

Sec 1 : Taruya et al. ( http://arxiv.org/pdf/1006.0699.pdf ) have a big focus on modelling multipoles.

Sec 2.1 : Comment on the convergence of Equation 19 ?

Sec 2.2 : Give more details of form of window function considered and box size?  Does Fig.1 plot the error in the mean or the standard deviation?

Hope those comments are useful,

Chris


// Ben
Hi Mike,
I read through the draft.  I think it is very nice.  

In sec 4.1 about covariances, I remembered this paper which might be relevant:
Harnois-Déraps
http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012MNRAS.423.2288H

Also I think the Pope&Szapudi reference is misplaced, that paper is about shrinkage estimators.  In that same paragraph, it is not clear why in Euclid or BigBOSS, the measurements would be limited to pair separations of a few degrees.

The method to compute W(k) using pair counting and changing the density of pairs with scale is neat.

I will discuss more with Gigi about the VIPERS details.  One thing to mention is that the survey coverage shown in Fig2 is not the final data release.

cheers,
Ben


// Florian
Dear Michael
I finally had a chance to look at your paper. Sorry for taking so long. I think this is a very interesting analysis and definitely worth publishing.

When you talk about a 3D FFT, do you mean that one calculates the convolution on a mode-to-mode basis? In my case the convolution is a sum over the number of k bins (see eq. 32 in http://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.4611v2.pdf). While calculating the likelihood I do not need to evaluate the window function on a mode-to-mode basis. 

I don't quite understand your discussion of the plain-parallel approximation in the introduction ("Although we have presented..."). What do you mean with "the angular position of all galaxies are to a good approximation identical"? Do you mean that the line-of-sight for all galaxies is the same (lets call that global plain parallel approximation)? In this case I think you misunderstand the Yoo & Seljak paper... they in fact state that this approximation is not valid for BigBOSS.

The fact that you calculate your convolved power spectrum through a 1D FFT does suggest that you also assume a global plain parallel approximation. This might all be ok in the case of VIPERS (given the small angle), but it would not work for BOSS. Given your eq. 18 I figure you do not assume a spherical symmetric window function, which is definitely better than what people usually do when using this approach. 
cheers
fl

 Hi Michael
The complexity of calculating the window function multipoles in my method is O(N^2_ran), were N_ran is the number of random galaxies. N_ran does not need to be large though... this is eq. 33 in http://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.4611v2.pdf. I guess this is the same in your method? Or can you do this any faster? 
After one has calculated the window function multipoles the convolution can be done in O(k_bin*k'_bin) were k_bin is the number of bins of the power spectrum measurement and k'_bin is the number of bins for the convolution (eq. 32) in my paper. When I evaluate the likelihood I need to convolve a model power spectrum with the window function for each element of the MCMC chain. k_bin is usually small (50 or so) and k'_bin does not need to be much larger than k_bin.
Your method uses FFT, so your complexity is O(k_bin*log(k_bin)), which looks faster than my method. However, in my method I calculate the power spectrum only for each k_bin (or k'_bin) were I actually measured the power spectrum. Since you calculate an FT, you need a large range in k, so that you can effectively integrate over it. So your k_bin will be (much) larger than mine. Since calculating a complicated power spectrum model using perturbation theory is time consuming, calculating this model for many k bins is a problem. So even if your convolution is faster than mine, I fear you have to evaluate the power spectrum model at so many bins, that you method would be much slower. Does this make sense? 
cheers
fl

Hi again
 
> Although it'd obviously be great if you were able to apply it directly to speed up your own analysis, the question I was hoping we could agree on was to whether the
> approach is valid for wide angle surveys, not as to whether it's compatible with e.g the Taruya model.

sorry I forgot to answer this question... I think you are right, this should work for a wide angle survey as well. Even if it might not help for my analysis pipeline I definitely think it is an interesting approach and worth publication. I would publish it together with the VIPERS power spectrum analysis not as a separate paper.
best
fl 


// Gigi
Dear Mike,

 I think the paper looks very interesting and in my opinion the topic is worth having an independent letter, separated from the actual RSD analysis planned on VIPERS.  It’s a neat idea and I believe it would be lost if embedded into another paper where the focus will be inevitably on the RSD measurement.

I only have a few comments for small text modifications, to better clarify how you use the VIPERS geometry as test bench:

— Abstract, final sentence I would say: “We present a concrete application of this approach to the complex geometry of the VIPERS survey PDR-1 release, and discuss possible issues in extending the method to wider-angle surveys.

— At the bottom of pag.2, 3rd last paragraph, you ask about multipole decomposition of the Scoccimarro and Taruya models. This is discussed in detail in the VIPERS RSD paper (de la Torre et al. 2013), where in the end we used Scoccimarro’s.  I am sure Sylvain can add discussion here.

— Caption to Fig.2: End of first sentence, add “… across the VIPERS W1 field, for the PDR-1 data release"

— Section 3, first sentence: “…we present a concrete application to the geometry of […] “. Otherwise it looks you are doing something with the data.  
Also, my understanding is that in the end you only use the W1 area mask, right?  This should be mentioned more explicitly somewhere.

— End of same paragraph: “geomtery” 

— Title of Appendix B: “DERIVATTION"

— Somewhere it would also be useful to mention in the light of this paper the VIPERS P(k) paper by Stefano, just to let people know that more is coming on P(k) 

This is all for now, congratulations at a nice piece of work,

gigi


Ah yes,

 one recommendation could be send the paper to the VIPERS team before going to the archive, both because it is interesting and also to avoid any misunderstanding, i.e. to show that no VIPERS proprietary information has been used.  You can talk with Sylvain about when and how to do this.

All the best wishes,

Gigi
